# SNHU-CS-320-Software-Test-Automation-QA-Jason-Sedgwick
How can I ensure that my code, program, or software is functional and secure?
How do I interpret user needs and incorporate them into a program?
How do I approach designing software?

Writing clean, secure, and efficient code should be the focus of all developers  Software is under a constant threat and personal information can easily be at risk. The software also needs to run without errors and avoid hogging resources, such as memory and bandwidth.  There are many ways to ensure that the code is secure, and this starts with considering security concerns from the very beginning.   I personally like to outline or give myself an idea as where I believe the greatest vulnerabilities will be.  What kind of software am I creating? Does it require access to personal data, such as usernames, passwords, location, etc.  I am currently working on developing several blockchain applications, and these require bank level security as cryptocurrency wallets must be accessed securely through the application.  To add on to this, I also work on making my code efficient and functional by testing the software through automation both static and dynamically. Depending on the type of program I am creating, this can be accomplished by a multitude of tests, boundary-value testing, this tests the limits of the valid input ranges.  Negative-testing tests the behavior of the system when invalid inputs are entered.  There are unit tests, which test individual components or methods of code to ensure that they function as expected.  Later in the process integration and system testing can be done where the entire system is tested for functionality.  A solid software creation starts with a strong development team and a solid technical understanding.  

Next I will move onto interpreting user needs and interpreting them into a program.  User needs can be obtained through several ways, my personal preference is through an interview or team meeting.  Then the software development process begins.  This is where user stories are used to brainstorm the design of the software and determine what each aspect of the program will accomplish.  THen there are the scrum meetings to make sure the team is on task and identify any issues.  I prefer to use the agile method instead of the waterfall method because the agile method offers flexibility throughout the SDLC process.  
